- API's are deprecated in Kubernetes in accordance with the [API Duplication Policy Rules](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/#deprecating-parts-of-the-api)
# Situation
- Create an `kodekloud.com` API group with `webinar` and `course` API resources.
- Because this is a new API group initial release is `Alpha` (`v1alpha1`). In Kubernetes version X, release `v1alpha1` was released. As its the only version the preferred/storage version is `v1alpha1`
- `v1alpha2` dropped API resource `webinar`. Kubernetes version `X+1` is when `v1alpha2` was released and `v1alpha1` was deprecated. `v1alpha2` is the preferred/storage version as it is a newer Alpha deployment.
- `v1beta1` (Kubernetes version `X+2` and `X+3`) only contains Beta and Alpha has been removed.
- `v1beta2` (Kubernetes version `X+3`), while `v1beta1` is the preferred/stored version.
- `X+4` contains `v1beta1` and `v1beta2` where now `v1beta2` is the preferred/stored version.
- GA version `v1` were released later on.
> Note: When creating API objects preferred/stored API version will get utilized.
## Policies
### **Rule #1: API elements may only be removed by incrementing the version of the API group.**
- If we were to remove `webinar` in the next incrementation of `v1alpha2`.
- For quality of life, a new release should be backwards compatible to support `v1alpha1` or else all YAML file would require for version to be bumped up.
### **Rule #2: API objects must be able to round-trip between API versions in a given release without information loss, with the exception of whole REST resources that do not exist in some versions.**
- For example, if we are to use `duration` field within `spec` for `course` API object. Then this field should also be present in `v1alpha1`. So when converting to `v1alpha2` back to `v1alpha1` there are no differences.
### **Rule `#4a`: API lifetime is determined by the API stability level**
- GA API versions may be marked as deprecated, but must not be removed within a major version of Kubernetes
- Beta API versions are deprecated no more than 9 months or 3 minor releases after introduction (whichever is longer), and are no longer served 9 months or 3 minor releases after deprecation (whichever is longer)
- Alpha API versions may be removed in any release without prior deprecation notice
- For example, 
	- in `X+1` Kubernetes version `v1alpha1` deployments break for users as it is not longer present. Therefore, it should be mentioned in the release notes letting users know to convert to the current preferred/storage version.
	- `X+3`, But it also contains `v1beta1`, which is now marked as `Deprecated` but is still part of the release.
### **Rule `#4b`: The "preferred" API version and the "storage version" for a given group may not advance until after a release has been made that supports both the new version and the previous version**
### **Rule #3: An API version in a given track may not be deprecated in favor of a less stable API version.**
- GA API versions can replace beta and alpha API versions.
- Beta API versions can replace earlier beta and alpha API versions, but _may not_ replace GA API versions.
- Alpha API versions can replace earlier alpha API versions, but _may not_ replace GA or beta API versions.
# Kubectl Convert
- Used to convert definition files to use the new preferred/stored version.
	- Need to be installed separately.
- `kubectl convert -f <old-file> --output-version <new api>`, `kubectl convert -f nginx.yaml --output-version app/v1`