## Rollouts
- Helps track changes within the deployment and makes rolling back seamless, during updates.
- Each new version deployments creates new Rollout revisions.
### Commands
- Check rollout status, `kubectl rollout status deployment/<name-of-deployment>`
- Check rollout history, `kubectl rollout history deployment/<name-of-deployment>`
	- Can use `--revision` flag to specifically pick which change to be viewed
## Deployment Strategy
The type of strategy used can be seen in the `kubectl describe` under `StratergyType` field. 
- **Recreate** - Destroys and re-creates. This causes downtime.
- **Rolling update** (Default) - Taking down older version and brining up newer version one at a time (one old version Pod is replaced by a newer one). No downtime and seamless upgrade.
- **Blue Green**
- **Canary**
### Updates/Upgrades
- Updates are applied when ever there is a change in the deployment. *Whether it be though deployment definition or directly to deployment via command line.*
- When upgrading a deployment, a new Replica Set gets created where the newer revision of updated Pods are deployed one at a time. For each newer Pod that is spun up older Pod (previous version) is removed until the desired replica count is reached.
- For example, `kubectl set image` can be used to update image of a deployment.
- When making changes `--record` flag can be used to record and better track changes.
	- `--record` has been depreciated instead annotations (`--annotation`) are used to set change logs. [1](https://kodekloud.com/community/t/k8s-record-deprecated-demo-lecture-still-teaches-it/28183/7)[2](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/40422#issuecomment-1118054056)
- Adding an annotation `kubernetes.io/change-cause: <change note>` using `kubectl annotate`.
#### Error
- During an upgrade Kubernetes as usual brings down a replica (Pod) for a deployment and then proceeds to create newer Pods with the upgrade. When the new upgrade fail, Kubernetes then halts the upgrade process. But the previous replica set still has one less Pod to work with.
## Rollback
- `kubectl rollout undo deployment/<deployment name>` allows rollback.
	- Specific revision can be picked using `--revision` to roll back to. When no versions a specified it picks the previous state as the rollback.
	- When rolling back to a state where a Definition file was applied, Kubernetes saves the state of the file. Meaning, the file and its changes are preserved by Kubernetes to allow a seamless rollback.
