An _admission controller_ is a piece of code that intercepts requests to the Kubernetes API server prior to persistence of the object, but after the request is authenticated and authorized.
- A few Admission Controllers are,
	- AlwaysPullImages - Ensures images are always pulled when Pod is created.
	- DefaultStorageClass - Observes the creation of PVCs without any storage class specified and adds a default storage class to them.
	- EventRateLimit - Set rate limit on requests for the API server.
	- NamespaceExists - Rejects requests to namespaces that do not exists.
	- etc. 
- The following are enabled by default in Kubernetes version 1.31,
 ```shell
CertificateApproval, CertificateSigning, CertificateSubjectRestriction, DefaultIngressClass, DefaultStorageClass, DefaultTolerationSeconds, LimitRanger, MutatingAdmissionWebhook, NamespaceLifecycle, PersistentVolumeClaimResize, PodSecurity, Priority, ResourceQuota, RuntimeClass, ServiceAccount, StorageObjectInUseProtection, TaintNodesByCondition, ValidatingAdmissionPolicy, ValidatingAdmissionWebhook
```
- To check which ones are enabled by default use `kube-apiserver` cli,
	- `kube-apiserver -h | grep enable-admission-plugins`
	- If using `kubeadm` setup then execute the command within the Pod,
		- `k exec -n kube-system kube-apiserver-node1  -- kube-apiserver -h | grep enable-admission-plugins`
## Enable Admission Controllers
- `enable-admission-plugins` argument can be used to enable Admission Controllers.
- Can be enabled by adding it within `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml`(if service is running as a Pod) or editing the service `kube-apiserver.service`(if service is installed).
- Similarly, `disable-admission-plugins` can be used to disabled Admission Controllers.
# Reference 
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/