 - Controllers, processes that monitor Kubernetes objects and respond accordingly.
 - Replica Controller/Replica Sets, ensure specified number of pods are running at all times
	 - High Availability
		 - Helps run multiple instances of a single pod across a Kubernetes cluster.
		 - Single pod can still be used with a single pod. It is responsible to spin up another instance when the existing pod fails.
	- Load Balancing & Scaling
		- Allows load balancing by spinning up more instances of the Pod.
		- Provides horizontal scaling (adding more Pods rather than increasing resources)
- Replication Controller and Replica Sets have the same purpose but are not the same,
	- Replication Controller is the older technology being replace by replica sets.
- Replica Set uses `selector` property to identify which Pods it should replicate. *For Replication Controller this is an optional field*
	- These can be Pods defined in the Replica Set definition files or other Pods within the cluster.
## Labels and Selectors
- Labels can be provided as filters which is used by Replica Sets or Replication Controller.
- Selectors are used to specify these labels within Replica Sets or Replication Controller.
- **If a Replica Sets or Replication Controller is deployed after Pods with correct labels have already been created, no new pods are deployed.**
	- Still a Pod template should be provided incase if Pod(s) were to fail so new ones can be spun up.
## Scale
- Update the `replicas` property within the definition file and then apply `kubectl replace -f <replicaset/rc definition file>`
- Using `kubectl scale`
	- Scale with a replica set definition file, `kubectl scale --replicas=<number of replicas> -f <replica set definition file>`. *Does not change the number of replica sets within the file.*
	- Scale with replica set name, `kubectl scale --replicas=<number of replicas> replicaset <name of replicaset>`
**Note:**
*When images of replica set has been changed/modified. Pods need to be recreated to reflect the change.*
## Commands
### Replication Controller
- Create Replication Controller,
	`kubectl create -f rc-definition.yaml`
- Get Replication Controller,
	`kubectl get replicationcontrollers`
- Get pods,
	`kubectl get pods`
- Replace or update Replication Controller,
	- `kubectl replace -f <rc definition file>`
- Delete Replication Controller,
	- Via Replication Controller definition file,
		- `kubectl delete -f rc-definition.yaml
	- Via Replication Controller name,
		- `kubectl delete replicationcontrollers <name of replication controller>`
### Replica Sets
- Create Replica Sets,
	- `kubectl create -f replicaset-definition.yaml`
- Get Replica Sets,
	- `kubectl get replicasets.apps`
- Get pods,
	- `kubectl get pods`
- Replace or update replica set,
	- `kubectl replace -f <replicaset/rc definition file>`
- Delete Replica Set,
	- Via Replica Set definition file,
		- `kubectl delete -f replicaset-definition.yaml`
	- Via Replica Set name,
		- `kubectl delete replicaset <name of replicaset>`