## Node Affinity Type
- When placement of the Pod is crucial/specific then `requriedDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` should be used. As it ensure Pod only resides on the node with the matching affinity.
	- If labels to meet the affinity requirement are removed after scheduling, no impact occurs to the nodes and they continue to reside on the node.
- When Pod workload is more important than the Pod's node placement then `prefferedDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` can be used. If node no affinity matches are found, affinity is ignored and Pod is placed on any available node.
	- If labels to meet the affinity requirement are removed from the node after scheduling the Pods, no impact occurs to the nodes and they continue to reside on the node.
-  In future `requriedDuringSchedulingRequiredDuringExecution` will be available.
	- If labels to meet the affinity requirement are removed from the node after scheduling the Pods, the Pods are evicted from the node.

# [Node affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#node-affinity)
- Kubernetes documentation explain it better,
- "*Node affinity is conceptually similar to `nodeSelector`, allowing you to constrain which nodes your Pod can be scheduled on based on node labels. There are two types of node affinity:*
	- *`requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`: The scheduler can't schedule the Pod unless the rule is met. This functions like `nodeSelector`, but with a more expressive syntax.*
	- *`preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`: The scheduler tries to find a node that meets the rule. If a matching node is not available, the scheduler still schedules the Pod.*"
>#### Note:
In the preceding types, `IgnoredDuringExecution` means that if the node labels change after Kubernetes schedules the Pod, the Pod continues to run.

`spec.affinity.nodeAffinity` is where `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` and `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` are specified. Node labels are used to narrow down Nodes where Pods will be deployed.