- A Kubernetes definition file contains 4 top/root level required fields
	- `apiVersion` - Version of Kubernetes API used to create an object.
		- For Pods we will set this version to be `v1`. Will be explained in depth later on.
		- A string value
	- `kind` - Type of object trying to be created.
		- In this case its `Pod`
		- A string value
	- `metadata` - Data about the object.
		- Can only specify properties that Kubernetes provide such as `name`, `labels`, etc. Custom properties cannot be added.
			- Labels are used to identify objects.
			- Can add custom key and value pairs.
		- In dictionary format.
	- `spec` - Provides specification for the object that is being created.
		- Unique for different type of object (refer to documentation to understand values required)
		- In dictionary format.
## YAML indentation
- Space of indentation should not matter. But "name" and "labels" should have the same space, as they are siblings.
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: myapp-pod # String value
  namespace: ckad-practice
  labels: # Dictonary
    app: myapp
    type: front-end
spec:
  containers: # List/Array
    - name: nginx-container # First item
      image: nginx
```
- `name` here is a "string" value
- `lables` is a dictionary in the snippet above.
- 
## YAML syntax
- All members of a list are lines beginning at the same indentation level starting with a `"- "` (a dash and a space)[[1](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/YAMLSyntax.html)].
- A dictionary is represented in a simple `key: value` form (the colon must be followed by a space)[[1](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/YAMLSyntax.html)]
- Dictionaries and lists can also be represented in an abbreviated form if you really want to:[[1](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/YAMLSyntax.html)]
```yaml
---
martin: {name: Martin D'vloper, job: Developer, skill: Elite}
fruits: ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Strawberry', 'Mango']
```
## Commands
- Create a pod,
	`kubectl create -f pod-definition.yaml`
- Get pod,
	`kubectl get pods` **Add namespace if applicable*
- See detailed information about the pod,
	`kubectl describe pod myapp-pod`
- Edit running pod,
	`kubectl edit pods myapp-pod`
# Demo
```
set termguicolors
execute pathogen#infect()
syntax on
colorscheme dracula
filetype plugin indent on
:set paste
```