> Note: How to generate certificates for different Kubernetes components and for a user and use them in the Kubernetes cluster is not in the scope of the official CKAD exam.

- Authenticate a certificate,
	- Using `curl`,
		- `curl -v -k https://my-kube-playground:6443/api/v1/pods --key admin.key --cert admin.crt --cacert ca.crt`
	- Using `kubectl`,
		- `kubectl get pods --server my-kube-playground:6443 --client-key admin.key --client-certificate admin.crt --certificate-authority ca.crt`
- We can move these arguments to the Kubernetes configuration file called KubeConfig.
- Default location is under user's home directory within a `.kube` directory.
	- `$HOME/.kube/config` in Linux/UNIX systems and `$env:USERPROFILE\.kube\config` in Windows systems.
# Format 
- Is divided into three sections,
	- Clusters - All different clusters that you want to access go here,
	- Users - User accounts that have access to these clusters used to access go here, and
	- Contexts - Ties the specified Clusters and User accounts together and specified which account is used to access which cluster and which namespace within it.
- YAML format,
	- `kind` is `Config`
	- `clusters[]`
		- `name`
		- `cluster`
			- `certificate-authority` (path to ca.crt) / `certificate-authority-data` (certificate data in base64)
			- `server`
	- `users[]`
		- `name`
		- `user`
			- `client-certificate`  (path to client.crt) / `client-certificate-data` (client certificate data in base64)
			- `client-key` (path to client.key) / `client-key-data` (client key data in base64)
	- `contexts[]`
		- `context`
			- `cluster` (name of the cluster set)
			- `namespace`
			- `user` (name of the user set)
		- `name`
	- `current-context` specified the default context to use.
# Kubectl config
## List config
- `kubectl config view` shows the current config data while withholding sensitive information regarding user's and cluster's certificate data.
- Can view a custom configuration file using `--kubeconfig=my-custom-config`, when not mentioned the default configuration file is displayed.
## Update/modify config
- Change default context being used,
	- `kubectl config use-context <context name>`