## Helm Chart
- In the Kubernetes object definition files variable replacement is performed also known as templates.
- `values.yaml` contains the variables with which these values get replaced with.
- `chart.yaml`, information about the chart [itself](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts/#the-chartyaml-file),
- A chart consists of templates, values and charts configuration file.
- To install a chart `helm install [release-name] [chart-name]`
- Each installation is called a release and each release has a release name.
- `helm uninstall [release-name]` to uninstall a chart.
- `helm pull` to download and not install a chart.
	- Install the specific pulled chart `helm install [release-name] [chart-directory-location]`
### Repositories
- Repository for Helm charts is [ArtifactHUB.io](https://artifacthub.io/).
	- Search for cli can be done via `helm search hub wordpress`
		- `hub` is the repository positional argument.
- Other repositories exists too, such as [Bitnami](https://bitnami.com/stacks/helm)
	- To Bitnami repository it needs to be[ added as a repository ](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/quickstart/#initialize-a-helm-chart-repository)in your local helm instance.

### Upgrade a Release to newer version of chart
- `helm repo list`, see repo name
- `helm repo update`, updates all repo 
- `helm search repo nginx --versions`, lists all versions of `nginx`
- `helm -n mercury upgrade <releases name> <repo name>`, without specifying `--version` upgrades to the latest.
- `helm -n mercury ls`, lists releases.
### Rollback
- `helm history <release name>`, to see history of a release
- `helm rollback <release name> [revision number]`, to roll back to a specify revision.