- `/version` API is to monitor the version of the cluster.
- `/metrics` and `/healthz` used to monitor the health of cluster.
- `/logs` integrating with third-party logging applications.
- `/api` and `/apis` responsible for cluster functionality.
# `/api` and `/apis`
- `/api` (core)
	- consists of all core functionalities. Such as,
		- namespaces, pods, rc, events, endpoints, nodes, bindings, PV, PVC, configmaps, secrets, services.
- `/apis` (named)
	- More organized and newer features are made available here.
	- API groups contains resources within them and actions that can be performed with these are known as verbs,
		- apps (API Groups),
			- v1 (version)
				- deployments (Resources)
					- list
					- get
					- create
					- delete
					- update
					- watch
				- replicasets
				- statefulsets
		- extensions
		- networking.k8s.io,
			- v1 (version)
				- networkpolicies
		- storage.k8s.io,
		- authentication.k8s.io,
		- certificates.k8s.io.
			- v1 (version)
				- certificatesigningrequests
> Note: To see check which resource belongs to which group use[ Kubernetes API reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.31/#).
# Available APIs
- Using `curl`,
	- `curl https://localhost:6433 -k --key admin.key --cert admin.crt --cacert ca.crt`, without authentication not all APIs will be accessible.
- `kubectl proxy` can be used rather than providing authentication information in `curl`,
	- `kubectl proxy`, using this allows you to call upon port on which the proxy is established. Your KubeConfig's context is used to authenticate and access the APIs within the cluster.
	- Now `curl` can be performed on the Proxy port.