- Performed to provide information as to who the user is. 
- How access can be managed through Authentication?
## Accounts 
- An example breakdown of different account types:
	- Users (humans)
		- Administrators
		- Developers
	- Service Accounts (bots)
- Kubernetes,
	- Accounts cannot be created or viewed. 
	- does not manage users accounts natively,
		- User detail files
		- Certificates
		- Third-party identity service (LDAP, Kerberos, etc.)
	- Can manage service accounts
		- Create them,
		- List them.
### Users
- All access is managed by `kube-apiserver`
	- Authentication takes place before processing the request.
#### `kube-apiserver`
##### Auth Mechanisms
- Static Password File (with username and passwords)
	- `password123,user1,uid1,group1`
- Static Token File (with username and tokens)
- Certificates
- Third party authentication protocols (LDAP, Kerberos, etc).
###### Basic
- A CSV file containing 4 columns for password, username, user id and groups, respectively. With the fourth being optional.
	- For Static Token File, the password field can be replaced by a token
- `--basic-auth-file=user-details.csv` argument will be used to modify the `kube-apiserver` to use these accounts for authentication. For tokens, `--token-auth-file=user-token-details.csv` argument can be used.
	- Either, modify the `kube-apiserver.service` or if `kubeadm` was used then modify `kube-apiserver` pod definition file (`/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml`).
- Volume mounts should be used to pass in the file.
##### Authenticate a User 
- Use `curl` to authenticate a user,
	- Passwords,
		- `curl -v -k https://master-node-ip:6443/api/v1/pods -u "user1:password123"`
	- Tokens,
		- `curl -v -k https://master-node-ip:6443/api/v1/pods -u "Authorization: Bearer <token>"`
> Note: Basic Authentication is deprecated from Kubernetes version 1.19 and later. It should not be used in production environment.
> This method is not secure to authenticate because of the plaintext nature of the file's contents.