- What access do they have and what are allowed to do with it?
- Is used to restrict access of different users within the cluster.
## Authorization Mechanisms
- Node Authorizer
	- Within the cluster
	- Applies to group "system:nodes" and only handles node requests. TLS authentication requests made by kubelets from "system:nodes" groups is authorized.
	- Set of privileges that are assigned to Nodes which allow them to communicate back and forth with Kube API (to check on resources) and report back the node's status.
- [Attribute Based Access Control (ABAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/abac/) - Assign user or a group of users a set of permissions
	- Performed via a Policy file (JSON format).
	- Policy file is used by Kube API server.
		- Each addition requires a restart of the Kube API server.
	- Difficult to manage as each users/group is assigned an attribute.
- RBAC - Create and assign role with a set of permissions to users.
- Webhook - Used to outsource Authorization of cluster to other applications. For example tools such as Open Policy Agent.
- AlwaysAllow - Always allows authorization checks.
- AlwaysDeny - Always denies authorization checks.

These authorization modes are set on the Kube API server.

If a user generates a requests and Autorization Mechanisms is set to `--authorization-mode=Node,RBAC`, then authorization is performed in that order.
- `Node` - Node authorizer denies the requests as its not from a node.
- `RBAC` - Performs checks and grants permission to user and authorization is completed and stopped here.